Application layer protocols:
    -> Remote login to hosts: Telnet
    -> File transfer: File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP)
    -> Electronic mail transport: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
    -> Networking support: Domain Name System (DNS)
    -> Host initialization: BOOTP
    -> Remote host management: Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), 
                               Common Management Information Protocol over TCP (CMOT)

End to End service is provided in the application layer.

For Application, Presentation and Session layers there is no data format for message. 
Message is message as such in these three layers.

Application layer provides the interface between applications and the network. 
So application developer can decide what transport layer to use and what should be its maximum buffer size.

E-mail is Elastic application. Because it can work with available throughput.

The services provided by the application layer are network virtual terminal, file transfer, 
access and management, mail services, directory services, various file and data operations.

The transport services that are provided to application are reliable data transfer, security and timing. 
These are very important for proper end to end services.

Email uses various protocols like SMTP, IMAP and POP. 
The most prominent one used in application layer is SMTP.

Domain name system is the way the internet domain names are stored and translated to IP addresses. 
The domain names systems matches the name of website to ip addresses of the website.

Telnet is used for accessing remote computers. Using telnet a user can access computer remotely. 
With Telnet, you can log on as a regular user with whatever privileges you may have been granted to the 
specific application and data on the computer.

Application layer deals with the user interface, what message is to be sent or the message format, 
syntax and semantics. A user has access to application layer for sending and receiving messages.

SMTP - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol is an application layer protocol. 
A client who wishes to send a mail creates a TCP connection to the SMTP server and then sends the 
mail across the connection.

The ASCII encoding of binary data is called base 64 encoding.

Simple Network Management Protocol is an internet standard protocol for managing devices on IP network.
SNMP is a set of protocols for network management and monitoring. This protocol is included in the 
application layer. SNMP uses 7 protocol data units.

Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is a signaling protocol in which its function includes initiating, 
maintaining and terminating real time sessions. SIP is used for signaling and controlling multimedia sessions.