Data link layer mainly deals with framing, error control and flow control.

Media access control sublayer of the data link layer performs data link functions 
that depend upon the type of medium.

Media access control (MAC) deals with transmission of data packets to and from the network-interface card, 
and also to and from another remotely shared channel. 

The MAC sublayer also prevents collision using protocols like CSMA/CD.

In a frame, the header is a part of the data that contains all the required information about 
the transmission of the file. 

It contains information like synchronization bytes, addresses, frame identifier etc. 

It also contains error control information for reducing the errors in the transmitted frames.

Automatic repeat request error management mechanism is provided by logical link control layer.

The logical link control is a sublayer of data link layer whose main function is to manage traffic, 
flow and error control.

When a single bit error occurs in a data, it is called single bit error. 
When more than a single bit of data is corrupted or has error, it is called burst error. 
If a single bit error occurs, the bit can be simply repaired by inverting it, but 
in case of a burst error, the sender has to send the frame again.

Cyclic redundancy check is a code that is added to a data which helps us to identify any error 
that occurred during the transmission of the data. 
CRC is only able to detect errors, not correct them. CRC is inserted in the frame trailer.

There are many data link layer protocols. Some of them are 
    - SDLC (synchronous data link protocol), 
    - HDLC (High level data link control), 
    - SLIP (serial line interface protocol), 
    - PPP (Point to point protocol) etc. 
    These protocols are used to provide the logical link control function of the Data Link Layer.

In CSMA/CD, it deals with detection of collision after collision has occurred, whereas CSMA/CA deals 
with preventing collision. 
    CSMA/CD - Carrier Sensing Multiple Access/Collision detection. 
    CSMA/CA - Carrier Sensing Multiple Access/Collision Avoidance. 
These protocols are used for efficient multiple channel access.

Piggybacking is a technique in which the acknowledgment is temporarily delayed so as to be hooked 
with the next outgoing data frame. It saves a lot of channel bandwidth as in non-piggybacking system, 
some bandwidth is reserved for acknowledgement.

Spanning tree protocol (STP) is a network protocol that creates a loop free logical topology 
for ethernet networks. It is a layer 2 protocol that runs on bridges and switches. 
The main purpose of STP is to ensure that you do not create loops when you have redundant paths in your network.

The ethernet protocol is for data link layer.