Multiplexing is a method using which one can send multiples signals through a shared medium at the same time.
This helps in using less resources and thus saving the cost of sending messages.

TDM - Time division multiplexing. 
    It is technique for combining several low rate channels to a single high rate channel. 
    For a certain time slot, the several channels could use the maximum bandwidth. 
    Each channel is inactive for a period of time too. 
    The slots are further divided into frames.
    TDM is used to transmit digital signals.

FDM - Frequency Division Multiplexing.
    FDM is the multiplexing technique that shifts each signal to a different carrier frequency. 
    This technique is used when the bandwidth of the channel is greater than the combined bandwidth 
    of all the signals which are to be transmitted. 
    The channel is active at all times unless a collision occurs with another channel trying to use 
    the same frequency.
    FDM is used for analog signals.

Circuit switching is a switching method by which one can obtain a physical path between end points. 
Circuit switching method is also called a connection oriented network. Two nodes must be physically 
and logically connected to each other to create a circuit switching network.

If there are n signal sources of same data rate, then the TDM link has n slots.
In TDM, the total unit of time is divided equally among all the signal sources and each and every source 
has access to the complete channel bandwidth during its allotted time slot. When the time slot of the source 
is not active, it remains idle and waits for its slot to begin.

If link transmits 4000frames per second, and each slot has 8 bits, the transmission rate of circuit this TDM is
    Transmission rate= frame rate * number of bits in a slot.
    Frame rate = 4000/sec and number of bits in slot = 8
    Thus, Transmission rate = (4000 * 8) bps
        = 32000bps
        = 32kbps

The state when dedicated signals are idle are called silent period.

Multiplexing helps us to transfer our messages over a shared channel. 
Multiplexing has high efficiency and high privacy when implemented because in the implementation, 
the transport layer of the OSI network model handles the function of multiplexing through interfaces 
called ports which provide the required efficiency and privacy.

In TDM the transmission rate provided by the path that is multiplexed will always be 
greater than the sum of transmission rates of the single sources. 
This happens because the transmission rate is provided to each source only for a small period of time.