IP address lets you know where the network is located. Whereas MAC address is a unique address 
for every device. Port address identifies a process or service you want to carry on.

Each layer adds its own header to the packet from the previous layer. For example, in the Internet layer, 
the IP header is added over the TCP header on the data packet that came from the transport layer.

The structure and format of data are defined using syntax. Semantics defines how a particular 
pattern to be interpreted, and what action is to be taken based on that interpretation.

In simplex transmission, data flows in single direction which in this case refers to the data flowing 
from the keyboard to the computer. Another example would be of the mouse where the data flows from the mouse to the computer only.

Messages travel from sender to receiver via a physical path called the medium using a set of methods/rules called protocol. 
Mediums can be guided (wired) or unguided (wireless).

In communications, a protocol refers to a set of rules and regulations that allow a network of nodes to 
transmit and receive information. Each layer in the network model has a protocol set, for example, 
the transport layer has TCP and UDP protocols.

A multipoint communication is established when three or many network nodes are connected to each other. 
Frame relay, Ethernet and ATM are some examples of multipoint connections.

An overlay network is a computer network that is built on top of another network. 
Some examples of an overlay network are Virtual Private Networks (VPN) and Peer-to-Peer Networks (P2P)

In a computer network, a node can be anything that is capable of sending data or receiving data or even routing 
the data to its destination. Routers, Computers and Smartphones are some examples of network nodes.

Bluetooth is a wireless technology used to create a wireless personal area network for data transfer up to 
a distance of 10 meters. It operates on 2.45 GHz frequency band for transmission.

A router is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks. Routers 
perform the traffic directing functions on the Internet. They make use of routing protocols like 
RIP to find the cheapest path to the destination.

A protocol stack refers to a group of protocols that are running concurrently that are employed 
for the implementation of network protocol suite. Each layer in the network model has to use 
one specific protocol from the protocol stack.

A virtual private network extends a private network across a public network, and enables users 
to send and receive data across shared or public networks as if their computing devices were directly
connected to the private network.VPN provides enhanced security and online anonymity to users on the internet. 
It is also used to unblock websites which are unavailable in certain regions.

Most local-area networks use a 48-bit (6-byte) physical address written as 12 hexadecimal digits; 
every byte (2 hexadecimal digits) is separated by a colon

The physical addresses will change from hop to hop, but the logical addresses usually remain the same.

A port address is a 16-bit address represented by one decimal number.

Categories of Networks:
    Local Area Networks (LANs)
        Short distances
        Designed to provide local interconnectivity
    Wide Area Networks (WANs)
        Long distances
        Provide connectivity over large areas
    Metropolitan Area Networks (MANs)
        Provide connectivity over areas such as a city, a campus

A protocol is synonymous with rule. It consists of a set of rules that govern data communications. 
The key elements of a protocol are:
    Syntax
        Structure or format of the data
        Indicates how to read the bits - field delineation
    Semantics
        Interprets the meaning of the bits
        Knows which fields define what action
    Timing
        When data should be sent and what
        Speed at which data should be sent or speed at which it is being received.

The physical, logical, port and specific addresses are used in TCP/IP protocol. 
All the addressing schemes, that is physical (MAC) and logical address, port address and specific address 
are employed in both TCP/IP model and OSI model. 
In TCP/IP, the addresses are more focused on the internet implementation of these addresses.

A port number is a way to identify a specific process to which an Internet or other network message 
is to be forwarded when it arrives at a server. Some examples of port numbers are port 20 which is used 
for FTP data, port 22 which is used for SSH remote login ,and port 23 which is used for TELNET.

Physical layer deals with network cables or the standards in use like connectors, 
pins, electric current used etc. Basically the transmission speed is determined by the cables and 
connectors used. Hence it is physical layer that determines the transmission speed in network. 
Some of the cables used for high speed data transmission are optical fiber cables and twisted pair cables.

Packet sniffers involve passive receiver
The function of packet sniffers is to just silently receive the packets flowing in the channel. 
If they inject any packets into the channel, they might alert the other users about the intrusion.

Switches make sure that the packet is sent to the intended receiver and no one else, 
thus preventing Sniffers to perform their function. 
Intelligent switches are hence used preferably for the network.

UDP is more vulnerable to attacks, so firewalls are often configured to block suspicious UDP traffic.

Unshielded twisted pair(UTP) is commonly used in home access.

Coaxial cable has an inner conductor surrounded by a insulating layer, which is surrounded by a 
conducting shield. Coaxial cable is used to carry high frequency signals with low losses.

The base unit of transmission rates in optical fibre is 51.8 Mbits/s. So an optical carrier 
represented as OC-n has n*51.8 Mbits/s transmission speed. For eg. OC-3 has 3*51.8 Mbits/s speed.

Radio channels can penetrate walls, can be used to provide connectivity to mobile users and can also 
carry signals for long distances.

 A local telephone network is an example of a circuit switched network.

Circuit switching is implemented in the Physical layer, whereas packet switching is implemented in 
the Network layer. Internet too is based on the concept of circuit switching.

Most packet switches use this principle 'store and forward'
    The packet switch will not transmit the first bit to outbound link until it receives the entire packet. 
    If the entire packet is not received and the time-out period expires, the packet switch will 
    inform the sender to resend the part of packet or the entire packet based on the algorithm being used.

The equation to find the end to end delay when no. of bits (L), transmission rate(R) and no. of routers(N)
is given by (N*L)/R
