TCP provides reliable and ordered delivery of a stream of bytes between hosts communicating via an IP network. 
Major internet applications like www, email, file transfer etc rely on TCP. 
TCP is connection oriented and it is optimized for accurate delivery rather than timely delivery.

Socket is one end point in a two way communication link in the network. TCP layer can identify the 
application that data is destined to be sent by using the port number that is bound to socket.

Winsock is a programming interface which deals with input output requests for internet applications in 
windows OS. It defines how windows network software should access network services.

The datagram congestion control is a transport layer protocol which deals with reliable connection setup, 
teardown, congestion control, explicit congestion notification, and feature negotiation.

A port is a TCP name for a transport service access point.
The network port identifies the application or service running on the computer. 
A port number is 16 bits. 
The combination of IP address preceded with the port number is called the socket address.

The Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) is a transport layer protocol used in networking 
system where streams of data are to be continuously transmitted between two connected network nodes. 
Some of the other transport layer protocols are RDP, RUDP, TCP, DCCP, UDP etc.

Resource reservation protocol is used in transport layer. It is designed to reserve resources across 
a network for quality of service using the integrated services model.

TCP:
-----

TCP groups a number of bytes together into a packet called segments. A segment may be collection of data 
from many send () statements. TCP transmits each segment as a stream of bytes.

In segment header, sequence number and acknowledgement number fields refer to Byte number to ensure ordered
delivery of packets.

TCP port 21 is used for FTP, 
TCP port 22 is used for SSH, 
TCP port 25 is used for SMTP. 
Telnet provides access to a command line interface on a remote computer using the TCP port number 23.

Flow control is done to prevent the receiver from being overflowed with data. It is done using various 
open-loop (prevention) methods and closed-loop (recovery) methods.

Size of TCP segment header ranges between 20 and 60 bytes.

A three-way handshake allows both, the server and the client to choose their Initial Sequence Number 
and inform about it to the other party.

The sizes of source and destination port address in TCP header are 16-bits and 16-bits respectively.

Sequence numbers allow receivers to discard duplicate packets and properly sequence reordered packets. 
Acknowledgments allow senders to determine when to retransmit lost packets.

UDP:
-----

UDP is an unreliable, connectionless transport layer protocol that provides message-based data transmission.

UDP provides low overhead, and higher speed.

The Network Time Protocol is a clock synchronization network protocol implemented by using UDP port 
number 123 to send and receive time stamps.

The fixed size of the UDP packet header is 8 bytes. It contains four two-byte fields: Source port address, 
Destination port address, Length of packet, and checksum.

The maximum size of a UDP datagram is 65,535 bytes (8 byte header + 65,527 bytes of data).

Checksum field is used to detect errors over the entire user datagram.